---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: From Novice to Expert The JavaScript Experience
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-01-16
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---
## Introduction
Coding is a great skill to learn, but it can be very challenging to do so. It can be a painful experience if time and effort isn’t put towards learning the basics. As someone who’s had a bad experience with coding, I would have a nervous breakdown when I had to code. A simple task would feel like a steep hill to climb over. Learning the possibilities that you can do with coding, I really wanted to work on my coding. Learning JavaScript not only helped me learn how to code, but it has given me more confidence towards coding. I will briefly discuss my experience with coding, and why I enjoy JavaScript.

## Past Experience
As an engineer major, I had to learn how to code in C. My experience with C wasn’t great because I had no experience with coding before. Barely passing the class, I stayed away from coding for a couple years. It was when I decided to get into computer engineering that I knew that I had to get better. My experience with C didn’t change though. It got harder to learn C because I was learning it from a different teacher who had different methods of coding. I would always get help from others when my assignments had to deal with coding, but I would still get lost. Coding would make me feel lost and insecure with my major. It was when I started to learn JavaScript that I realized that coding isn’t so bad after all.

## JavaScript Experience
My experience with JavaScript so far has been great. One reason why I enjoy JavaScript is because there are a lot of practice lessons to understand the basics. My biggest problem when I started to learn how to code was there wasn’t any practice lessons to help understand the basics. The first assignment for JavaScript was to do 106 basic problems that had explanations and examples. After those assignments, I was able to quickly grasp the basics of JavaScript. 

## Conclusion
Coding can be a difficult skill to learn. It was through JavaScript that I learned that coding isn’t so bad. With a lot of practice and challenges, I was able to improve my coding tremendously. Not only will JavaScript be a useful tool in the future, but it will help me adapt a new language. Coding will still be difficult to learn, but now I know that it’s not so bad after all.
